                  Real Programmer's Don't Write SpecsReal Programmer don' commen thei code I i wa har t write i shoul b har t understand, an anyway Real Programmers  can't write complete english sentences correctly, much less a full paragraph ever.Real Programmers don't believe in schedules. Planners make up schedules.  Managers "firm up" schedules.  Frightened coders strive to meet schedules.  Real programmers ignore schedules.Real Programmers don't bring brown bag lunches to work.  If the vending machine sells it, they eat it.  If the vending machine doesn't sell it, they don't eat it.  Vending machines don't sell quiche.Real Programmers  don't comment their code.  If it was hard to write, it should be hard to understand, use, and even harder to modify.Real Programmers  don't document.  Documentation is for simps who can't read the listings or the object deck.Real Programmers don't draw flowcharts.  Flowcharts are, after all, the illiterate's form of documentation.  Cavemen drew flowcharts;  look how much it did for them.Real Programmers don't eat quiche. In fact, Real Programmers don't even know how to SPELL quiche. They live on Twinkies, Doritos, Coke, and palate-scorching Szechuan food.Real Programmers don't need to flowchart their program or read directions, because real programmers always know what they are doing and don't have time to read what they have read before.  Plus, all of the errors can be fixed in "only a few" 30-hour debugging sessions.Real Programmers don't play tennis,or any other sport that requires you to change clothes. Mountain climbing is OK,and Real Programmers wear their climbing boots to work in case a mountain should suddenly spring up in the middle of the machine room, or for stomping on any stupid freshmans head who can't tell the difference between a dumb terminal,and a micro(unless, of course, they are cute, and then any assistance possible is rendered).Real Programmers don't read manuals.  Reliance on a reference is a hallmark of the novice and the coward.  Refering to anything other than machine code only weakens the mind.Real Programmers don't write applications programs.  They program right down to the bare metal (for you wimps,that is machine code). Application programming is for dullards who can't do system programming.Real Programmers don't write in ,or even know about, PASCAL, BLISS, ADA or any of those other PINKO computer languages.  Strong typing is for people with weak memories.Real Programmers don't write in APL, unless the whole program can be written on one line.Real Programmers don't write in BASIC. Actually, no programmers write in BASIC after the age of 12.Real Programmers don't write in COBOL. COBOL is for wimpy, dumb applications programmers.Real Programmers don't write in Fortran.  Fortran is for wimpy engineers who wear white socks, pipe stress freaks, and crystallography weenies.  They get excited over finite state machines.Real Programmers don't write in LISP.  Only effeminate programmers use more parentheses than actual code.Real Programmers don't write in PL/I. PL/I is for insecure momma's boys who can't decide whether to write in COBOL or FORTRAN and have slightly sadomasochistic tendencies.Real Programmers  don't write specs--users should consider themselves lucky to get any programs at all and should take what they get.Real Programmers know every nuance of every instruction and use them all in every program.  Puppy architects won't allow execute instructions to address another execute as the target instruction.  Real programmers despise such petty restrictions.Real Programmers like vending machine popcorn.  Coders pop it in the microwave oven.  Real programmers use the heat given off by the cpu.  They can tell what job is running by listening to the rate of popping.Real Programmers never dress up unless they are on job interviews and then only to the minimal degree necessary. Ideally, the only time a Real Programmer is in a suit is at his funeral.Real Programmers never work 9 to 5. If any Real Programmers are around at 9 AM it is because they were up all night.Real Programmers only get degrees in CSC,if they go to school at all,and try their best to ignore Info Sys types (business, who needs it).Real Programmers use Branch Conditions liberally (GOTO's for the simps out there) because that makes code harder to trace, and leads to job security.Real programmers disdain structured programming.  Structured programming is for compulsive, prematurely toilet-trained neurotics who wear neckties and carefully line up sharpened pencils on an otherwise uncluttered desk.Real programmers don't believe in schedules. Planners make up schedules.  Managers "firm up" schedules.  Frightened coders strive to meet schedules.  Real programmers ignore schedules.Real programmers don't drive clapped-out Mavericks.  The prefer BMWs, Lincolns or pick-up trucks with floor shifts.  Fast motorcycles are highly regarded.Real programmers don't like the team programming concept.  Unless, of course, they are the Chief Programmer.Real programmers don't write specs.  Users should be grateful for whatever they get.  They are lucky to get any program at all.Real programmers have no use for managers.  Managers are a necessary evil.  Managers are for dealing with personnel bozos, bean counters, senior planners and other mental defectives.Real programmers know every nuance of every instruction and use them all in every real program.  Puppy architects won't allow execute instructions to address another execute as the target instruction.  Real programmers despise such petty restrictions.Real programmers scorn floating point arithmetic.  The decimal point was invented for pansy bed wetters who are unable to "think big".The "Untanned" masses at Microsoft are not Real Programmers...