My Dad is a Rocket ScientistAbout 2 weeks ago, I was looking around the Web for the BIGGEST sky rocketthat I could get shipped to me via common freight carrier.  I located afireworks importer in Wisconsin who had this mondo sky rocket--biggestthing I had ever seen--called a SkyDragon.  These things are 48 inches talland are mounted on a 1/2-inch wooden dowel.  Pure aerospace engineering.  Iplopped down a bunch of money and had him send me two cases of thesethings.  They arrived at the freight dock a few days ago and I had to drivethe van over to pick them up.   Two boxes each 2 feet by 2 feet by 4 feetin sixe containing 80 rockets each.   The 'Class 4 Explosives' sticker onthe side of each box was a real bonus.  I am gonna have to save them forthe scrapbook.That night, me and the kiddos had a gen-u-ine rocket launch ceremony.  Iplaced one of these beauties in a liter-size glass bottle and the bottlefell over.  Hmmmm- this thing was waaay to big.  I looked around the shopfor a pipe to set it in, but realized that the only dirt I could drive thepipe into was in plain sight of my neighbor's house.  I knew he was a coolguy, but I didn't want him to call the cops.  You see- 'projectile-type'fireworks are totally illegal in this county.  I was surprised that theBuncombe County Sheriff Department wasn't waiting for me at the loadingdock when I picked these things up.  Anyhow, I finally rigged a launch padby prying up one of the driveway drain grates with a crowbar and sittingthe stick into the deep pit.  Looked sorta like an ICBM silo with itshardened lid slid aside. I asked which of my three kids wanted to light the fuse, but all took a fewsteps back and politely declined.  Chickenshits.  Kids just aren't made thesame nowadays.  They fulfill their danger quotient by shooting bad guys invideo games.  About as far from real danger as you can get, if you ask me. I told the little weenies to stand back as I bent to light the device witha Bic lighter.The lady at the fireworks importer promised me that these things would NOTmake any noise.  I told her that they HAD to be relatively quiet so I couldshoot them off in my neighborhood without causing 'undue alarm'.  She saidI wouldn't have any problem.  I emphasized the particular legal problems Iwould have if  there were any type of loud report at apogee.  I emphasizedthe fact that I lived right next to a National Park and that any type offireworks that was discharged or assumed to be discharged on that propertywould get me sent before a FEDERAL judge right before I got sent to theCOUNTY judge.  She again assured me I would have no problem.That lying bitch.That rocket engine had a burn time about as long as any I had EVER seen,and the ascent echoed off the surrounding trees.   Diamond shock patternextended from the back end.  It kept going and going and going.  When ithit apogee at about 1000 feet,  the rocket disintegrated into a huge showerof silent red sparks.  Pretty cool, I thought......until the shower ofsparks burned out and suddenly transformed into a cloud of extremely brightand loud explosions.  The kids scrambled into the back door 'Three Stooges'style (ie: where all three try to get through the same closed door at once)and left me standing in the smoking haze waiting for the cops to arrive. The dogs that live along our street were all barking their heads off at theapparition they had just witnessed in the night skyThat ended the fireworks test for the night.The next day, my oldest son Doug and I decided we were gonna 'neuter' oneof the rockets so it wouldn't make any noise.  I took him into the closetwhere I stored the gardening tools and he saw these two huge cases offireworks standing there.  The kid went nuts.  He wanted to open BOTH boxesso he could see what all 159 rockets looked like lined up next toeachother.  This kid has promise.  I told him:  "Since mom only thinks Ihave a few of these things lying around, maybe that wasn't such a goodidea."  He mulled that over for a few seconds, then gave me a real bigsmile in agreement.We pulled one of the rockets out of the box and re-locked the closet door. He and I both sat down on the driveway and proceeded to take it apart.  Itwas a standard issue big-ass Chinese sky rocket.  I bet they used these tokill people 500 years ago.   As I sat there taking layer after layer ofpaper off, his brain was filling with the details of construction.  Tissue,cardboard, plastic, fuses...etc.   Realizing that he was mentally storingthe design for some future project sorta made me shudder.    All I wasthinking was the fact that this thing was probably put together by apolitical prisoner in a hellhole somewhere who is probably gonna get'executed' so they can sell his internal organs on the transplant market.  Probably not too far from the facts, but I managed to do a bit ofexplaining to him from the standpoint of aerospace engineering regardinghow the thing worked.  Doug is probably the only 4th grader in the U.S. whocan now describe the principle of thrust using a control volume model.The rocket was pretty simple.  It had a very large booster engine toppedwith a warhead that contained the red sparkly things that exploded. Removing the warhead was as simple as giving a quick twist, and I assumedthe neutered rocket would fly higher without the payload.  I was correct. Doug and I did a daylight 'stealth' test and were able to add about 50% tothe altitude attained the previous night.  We decided to modify four morerockets and put them aside in the closet for easy access.  When this wasdone, Doug had a jar full of stuff that came out of the warheads including:12 fuses about 3-inches long each, some paper, 4 plastic nosecones and abig handfull of these little black balls about the size of 12-gaugebuckshot that turned out to be the 'red sparkly popper things'.  Itappeared that the outer layer was a simple gunpowder coating designed toquickly burn off as red shower of sparks.   I surmised that the inner corehad some kind of magnesium thermite that gave off an intense white lightand a loud bang.  Pretty cool if you ask me.   Lots of energy packed intoone teeny little ball.I didn't want to see the popper thingies go to waste, so I told Doug wewere gonna put them in a hole in the ground and set them off.  He gave meanother big smile.It's amazing how kids think alike...even when separated by 30 years.As I was digging a shallow hole with my hand, Doug asked if it would bealright to put an army man next to these things so that "When they go off,it would look like he was getting shot with a maching gun". Dang....exactly what I was thinking.  I agreed and he ran off to his roomto dig something out of the mess.  He returned in about 3 seconds, out ofbreath and  holding a cheap plastic imitation of Robert E. Lee on horsebackand a Civil War cannon.  I pointed out that they didn't have true machineguns in the Civil War, but we would overlook this for the purpose of thedemonstration.  He handed me the action figure and I placed it and thecannon next to a rather large pile of black beads from which a few of thefuses extended.  I figured that three inches of fuse would take 2 seconds to burn, so I hadat least that amount of time to stand up and take a few steps back.  Ineglected to recount the night before.....when the warhead ignitedIMMEDIATELY upon reaching apogee.  Tricky Chinese.  They had installedextremely fast-burning fuse in these things and that fact totally escapedme.I squatted next to Robert Lee and gave a short eulogy.  Doug laughed.  Itook the trusty Bic lighter and placed it next to the fuse.  One flick gotthe lighter going and THIS IMAGE IS ONE I WILL REMEMBER FOR A LONG TIME.  My hand holding a lighter next to a pile of explosives.There is usually a short but noticeable mental pause that occursimmediately before something bad or really stupid happens.  It is wherethat little voice in your head says: "You dumbass."The fuse burn time was in the 1/1000ths of a second range.   The pile oflittle popper thingy's immediately ignited into a tremendously brilliantball of fire.  All I could think was ..."...th....th.....thermite..."Unfortunately, when they are viewed at ground level, these little popperthingies become REALLY BIG POPPER THINGIES and have a tendency to jump upto 15-feet in every direction from their point of ignition.  Iinstantaneously became engulfed in a ball of fire that sounded a lot likebeing in a half-done bag of Orville Reddenbacher's popcorn.It was all over about as fast as I could can snap my finger.After the smoke cleared, Doug started laughing his butt off.  That meant Iwas still in one piece.  Doug does not laugh at dismembered limbs.   Hesaid I jumped about 10-feet, an action that I do not remember.  I checkedmy clothes for burn marks, and found none.  He checked my back to make sureit was not on fire.  No combustion there.  The driveway was peppered withblack holes where the concrete had been scarred from these things.   Iquickly scanned all the windows of the house to make sure my wife was notstanding there.  I guess this was a trained response dating back to mychildhood.  All windows were clear. The wife has a weird way of showing upright before something like this happens.  Hell, if she had seen what Ijust did, it would be about six months before I would hear the end of it.A close one.  Another REAL close one.  My mind ran the tapes again tore-hash what it had seen.  All I remembered was being inside something akinto a 30-foot diameter........flaming dandelion.  Whew.We examined Ol' Robert E. at ground-zero.Instead of a machine-gun peppering, he got nuked.   He and the horse herode in on.......and his cannon too.  One side was untouched, but the otherside was arc-welded.  Real warfare.  Doug examined it real quiet-like andthen started laughing again.I assume he will remember the finer points of the lesson as he grows older.When I now speak of 'almost being burned beyond recognition' he will havea slightly better understanding of what I mean.  I hope that this vividimage tempers the knowledge he now has regarding rocket construction.  Some folks may question the intelligence of doing something like this infront of a young child.  They would probably make some veiled reference toCharles Darwin and how 'natural selection' eliminates the risk-takers fromthe gene pool.   In actuality, I have danger-proofed my kid.  When hisfuture fraternity brothers pull out the 'big ammo' on one alcohol-blurredspring night, my kid is gonna be the first to run because his dad hasalready demonstrated what's gonna happen next.    Let the sons of the accountants and lawyers end up in the emergency room.After all- if your rocket-scientist dad isn't gonna teach you how easy itis to get your ass blown off, who will?